[RC1][RC2] Move test case integration requirements to a common place (#1725)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_cert/README.md

[<< Back](../)

# CNTT Reference Conformance (RC) Test Case Integration

> All CNTT conformance suites fulfill the following test case integration

Author: done

requirements to guarantee a smooth overall integration, the same end user
actions and a unique test result format (e.g. OPNFV test result database)
needed by the end users and the test case result verification programs (e.g.
[OVP](https://www.opnfv.org/verification)). Historically, these rules were
agreed by RC1 team and have been applied since
[CNTT Snezka](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/wiki/Snezka). The new RC2 stream
asks to move them in this common place applicable to all CNTT conformance
suites.

<a name="ri-rc-toolchaings"></a>
## CNTT RI and RC toolchains

[OPNFV](https://www.opnfv.org/) has built a complete CI/CD toolchain
for continuously deploying and testing cloud infrastructure.

As for all OPNFV installer projects,
[Jenkins](https://build.opnfv.org/ci/view/cntt/) triggers scenario deployments,
runs the OPNFV gating test cases and then publishes all test results in the
[centralized test database](https://docs.opnfv.org/en/stable-hunter/_images/OPNFV_testing_working_group.png)
and all artifacts (reports, logs, etc.) to
[an S3 compatible storage service](http://artifacts.opnfv.org/).

> The CNTT verification, validation and conformance processes will leverage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CNTT verification, validation, and conformance processes will leverage
```

Author: it doesn't seem right in my native language. Can someone second this proposal?

Reviewer 2: It's fine.  It's called the Oxford Comma and brings with it much debate about where it should and shouldn't be used.  Both options here are grammatically correct, but adding the comma can make it clearer.

Reviewer 3: @tomkivlin Maybe we should get an agreement to follow the Oxford comma throughout for consistency. FYI in North America it is frowned upon and hence have lost the habit.

Reviewer: It should be used throughout for clarity. https://annhandley.com/oxford-comma/ check this if you want to understand why and have a laugh

> existing OPNFV testing knowledge (projects) and experience (history) and then
> will conform to the overall toolchain design already in-place. The RC toolchain
> only requires for the local deployment of the components instead of leveraging
> the common OPNFV centralized services. But the interfaces remain unchanged
> mainly leveraging test jobs, the common test case execution, the test
> result database and the S3 protocol to publish the artifacts. It's worth
> mentioning that dumping all results and logs required for conformance is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
existing OPNFV testing knowledge (projects) and experience (history) and conform to the overall toolchain design already in-place. The RC toolchain
only requires the local deployment of each component rather than leveraging
the common OPNFV centralized services. However, the interfaces remain unchanged
mainly leveraging test jobs, the common test case execution, the test
result database, and the S3 protocol to publish the artifacts. It's worth
mentioning that dumping all results and logs required for conformance is
```

Author: @xmulligan Could you please confirm it's just about removing 'will'? your proposal is also breaking the format.

Reviewer: correct, only removing 'will' didn't mean to break the formatting

Author: done.

already in place in CIRV (see
[cntt-latest-zip](https://build.opnfv.org/ci/job/cntt-latest-zip/)) and
Functest daily jobs (see
[functest-hunter-zip](https://build.opnfv.org/ci/job/functest-hunter-zip/3/console)).

It should be noted that
[Xtesting CI](https://galaxy.ansible.com/collivier/xtesting) supports both
centralized and distributed deployment models as described before. It has
deployed the full toolchain in one small virtual machine to verify ONAP Openlab
via Functest.

<a name="testing-integration-requirements"></a>
## Test case integration requirements

> To reach all goals (verification, validation, compliance and conformance)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reach all goals (verification, validation, compliance, and conformance)
```

Author: it doesn't seem right in my native language. Can someone second this proposal?

Author: @pgoyal01 your help is more than welcome here.

expected by CNTT, all test cases must be delivered as
[Docker containers](https://www.docker.com/) and meet the requirements to
simplify the CI toolchain setups:
- the common test case execution
- the unified way to manage all the interactions with the CI/CD components and
  with third-parties (e.g. dump all test case logs and results for
  conformance)

For their part, the Docker containers simply enforce that the test cases are
delivered with all runtime dependencies. This prevents lots of manual
operations when configuring the servers running the test cases and prevents

> conflicts between the test cases due to any dependencies.

Author: next PR

It's worth mentioning that current
[test cases selected by CNTT](./chapter03.md)

> already leverages [Xtesting](https://xtesting.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
already leverage [Xtesting](https://xtesting.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
```

which is a simple framework to assemble sparse test cases and to accelerate the
adoption of CI/CD best practices. By managing all the interactions with the
CI/CD components (test scheduler, test results database, artifact repository),
it allows the developer to work only on the test suites without diving into
CI/CD integration. Even more, it brings the capability to run heterogeneous
test cases in the same CI toolchains thanks to a few,
[quickly achievable](https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/opnfvs-6th-release-brings-testing-capabilities-that-orange-is-already-using/2018/05/),
constraints.

The Docker containers proposed by the test projects must also embed
[the Xtesting Python package](https://pypi.org/project/xtesting/) and
[the related test case execution description files](https://git.opnfv.org/functest-xtesting/tree/docker/testcases.yaml)

> as required by Xtesting.

Reviewer 4: This portion is mixing the requirements (eg. xtesting and related test case description), what tool satisfies the requirement, past history of using the tool, and benefits of the tool itself.  

It would bring clarity to rework this and probably split things.

Author: next PR

Here are the issues tracking the updates of the existing OPNFV test
projects:
- Bottlenecks: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/510
- NFVBench: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/865
- StorPerf: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/673
- VSPERF: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/511
- YardStick: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/509

> 

Reviewer 4: This could be moved to the **CNTT RI and RC toolchains** section

Author: next PR

<a name="testing-cookbooks"></a>
## Testing Cookbooks

[Xtesting CI](https://galaxy.ansible.com/collivier/xtesting) leverages the
common test case execution proposed by Xtesting. Thanks to a simple test case
list, this tool deploys plug-and-play
[CI/CD toolchains in a few commands](https://wiki.opnfv.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=32015004).
In addition, it supports multiple components such as Jenkins and Gitlab CI
(test schedulers) and
[multiple deployment models](https://lists.opnfv.org/g/opnfv-tsc/message/5702)

> such as all-in-one or centralized services.

Reviewer 4: This section also seems like it could go under the **CNTT RI and RC toolchains** section

Author: next PR

[Xtesting](https://xtesting.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and
[Xtesting CI](https://galaxy.ansible.com/collivier/xtesting) combined meet the

> CNTT requirements about verification, validation, compliance and conformance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CNTT requirements about verification, validation, compliance, and conformance:
```

Author: it doesn't seem right in my native language. Can someone second this proposal?

- smoothly assemble multiple heterogeneous test cases
- generate the Jenkins jobs in
  [OPNFV Releng](https://git.opnfv.org/releng/tree/jjb/airship/cntt.yaml) to
  verify CNTT RI
- deploy local CI/CD toolchains everywhere to check compliance with CNTT
- [dump all test case results and logs](http://artifacts.opnfv.org/functest/9ID39XK47PMZ.zip)

>   for third-party conformance review

Reviewer 4: I think this section could go under **CNTT RI and RC toolchains**

Author: next PR

> # CNTT Reference Conformance

Reviewer 3: @collivier Suggest
```suggestion
# CNTT Reference Conformance (RC) Test Case Integration
```

# CNTT Reference Conformance

> All CNTT conformance suites fulfill the following test case integration

Reviewer 3: What does the "following test case requirements refer to"? as there are no such requirements in the document?

Author: @pgoyal01 I don't understand your comment (It refers to ## Test case integration requirements).

Reviewer 3: @collivier Please ignore. Sorry

> All CNTT conformance suites fulfill to the next couple of test case integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All CNTT conformance suites fulfill the following test case integration
```

requirements to guarantee a smooth overall integration, the same end user
actions and a unique test result format (e.g. OPNFV test result database)
needed by the end users and the test case result verification programs (e.g.
[OVP](https://www.opnfv.org/verification)). Historically, these rules were
agreed by RC1 team and have been applied since
[CNTT Snezka](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/wiki/Snezka). The new RC2 stream
asks to move them in this common place applicable to all CNTT conformance
suites.

<a name="ri-rc-toolchaings"></a>
## CNTT RI and RC toolchains

[OPNFV](https://www.opnfv.org/) has built a complete CI/CD toolchain

> continuously deploying and testing NFVI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for continuously deploying and testing cloud infrastructure.
```

As for all OPNFV installer projects,
[Jenkins](https://build.opnfv.org/ci/view/cntt/) triggers scenario deployments,
runs the OPNFV gating test cases and then publishes all
test results in the
[centralized test database](https://docs.opnfv.org/en/stable-hunter/_images/OPNFV_testing_working_group.png)
and all artifacts (reports, logs, etc.) to
[an S3 compatible storage service](http://artifacts.opnfv.org/).

> The CNTT verification and conformance processes will leverage existing OPNFV

Reviewer 3: Can we just say "CNTT conformance" w/o the verification, or say "CNTT verification and validation conformance processes". Thanks

> The CNTT verification and conformance processes will leverage on existing OPNFV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CNTT verification and conformance processes will leverage existing OPNFV
```

testing knowledge (projects) and experience (history) and then will conform
to the overall toolchain design already in-place. The RC toolchain only

> requires for the local deployment of the components instead of leveraging on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
requires for the local deployment of the components instead of leveraging
```

the common OPNFV centralized services. But the interfaces remain unchanged

> mainly leveraging jenkins jobs, the common test case execution, the test

Reviewer 3: The sentence, "But the interfaces remain unchanged mainly leveraging jenkins jobs ..." seems to imply that the interfaces leverage Jenkins jobs ...

Author: jenkins is the current test scheduler in OPNFV and the default case in RC1.
I would consider test case jobs as less precise but it may fit the new location. updating

> mainly leveraging on jenkins jobs, the common test case execution, the test

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
mainly leveraging jenkins jobs, the common test case execution, the test
```

result database and the S3 protocol to publish the artifacts. It's worth

> mentioning that dumping all results and logs required by conformance is already

Reviewer 3: Typo
```suggestion
mentioning that dumping all results and logs required for conformance is already
```

in place in CIRV (see
[cntt-latest-zip](https://build.opnfv.org/ci/job/cntt-latest-zip/)) and
Functest daily jobs (see

> [functest-hunter-zip](https://build.opnfv.org/ci/job/functest-hunter-zip/3/console))

Reviewer 3: Typo
```suggestion
[functest-hunter-zip](https://build.opnfv.org/ci/job/functest-hunter-zip/3/console)).
```

It should be noted that
[Xtesting CI](https://galaxy.ansible.com/collivier/xtesting) supports both

> centralized and distributed deployment models as described below. It has

Reviewer 3: "... deployment models as described below" but there are no such deployment models described in the text.

Author: in CNTT RI and RC toolchains. I could replace below if it helps. Updating

deployed the full toolchain in one small virtual machine to verify ONAP Openlab
via Functest.

<a name="testing-integration-requirements"></a>
## Test case integration requirements

> To reach all goals (verification, compliance and conformance) expected by

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To reach all goals (verification, validation, compliance and conformance) expected by
```

CNTT, all test cases must be delivered as
[Docker containers](https://www.docker.com/) and meet the requirements to
simplify the CI toolchain setups:
- the common test case execution
- the unified way to manage all the interactions with the CI/CD components and
  with third-parties (e.g. dump all test case logs and results for
  conformance)

> For their parts, the Docker containers simply enforce that the test cases are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For their part, the Docker containers simply enforce that the test cases are
```

> delivered with all runtime dependencies. Then it prevents lots of manual

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
delivered with all runtime dependencies. This prevents lots of manual
```

> operations when configuring the server running the test cases and prevent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
operations when configuring the servers running the test cases and prevents
```

> conflicts between all test case dependencies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
conflicts between the test case due to any dependencies.
```

Author: @pgoyal01 your proposal seems worse. I was trying to explain two tests could leverage different library versions which could conflict. Let me know if I do update my first proposal.

Reviewer 3: @collivier Sorry. Maybe
```suggestion
conflicts between the test cases due to any dependencies.
```

It's worth mentioning that current
[test cases selected by CNTT](./chapter03.md)

> already leverages on [Xtesting](https://xtesting.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
already leverages [Xtesting](https://xtesting.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
```

which is a simple framework to assemble sparse test cases and to accelerate the
adoption of CI/CD best practices. By managing all the interactions with the
CI/CD components (test scheduler, test results database, artifact repository),
it allows the developer to work only on the test suites without diving into
CI/CD integration. Even more, it brings the capability to run heterogeneous

> test cases in the same CI toolchains thanks to a few low constraints

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
test cases in the same CI toolchains thanks to a few, [quickly achievable](https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/opnfvs-6th-release-brings-testing-capabilities-that-orange-is-already-using/2018/05/), constraints.
```

> [quickly achievable](https://www.sdxcentral.com/articles/news/opnfvs-6th-release-brings-testing-capabilities-that-orange-is-already-using/2018/05/).

Reviewer 3: suggest delete as content moved

> Following the design in use, the Docker containers proposed by the test

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Docker containers utilised by the test
```

Author: Yes I'm mentioning the deliverable. I could remove the first part if it helps

Reviewer 3: @collivier Maybe some other can comment

projects must also embed
[the Xtesting Python package](https://pypi.org/project/xtesting/) and
[the related test case execution description files](https://git.opnfv.org/functest-xtesting/tree/docker/testcases.yaml)
as required by Xtesting.

Here are the issues tracking the updates of the existing OPNFV test
projects:
- Bottlenecks: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/510
- NFVBench: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/865
- StorPerf: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/673
- VSPERF: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/511
- YardStick: https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/issues/509

<a name="testing-cookbooks"></a>
## Testing Cookbooks

> [Xtesting CI](https://galaxy.ansible.com/collivier/xtesting) leverages on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Xtesting CI](https://galaxy.ansible.com/collivier/xtesting) leverages the
```

common test case execution proposed by Xtesting. Thanks to a simple test case

> list, this tool deploys anywhere plug-and-play

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
list, this tool deploys plug-and-play
```

[CI/CD toolchains in a few commands](https://wiki.opnfv.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=32015004).

> In addition of this teaching capability needed by the Network Automation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition, 
```

> journey, it supports multiple components such as Jenkins and Gitlab CI (test

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
, it supports multiple components such as Jenkins and Gitlab CI (test
```

schedulers) and
[multiple deployment models](https://lists.opnfv.org/g/opnfv-tsc/message/5702)
such as all-in-one or centralized services.

[Xtesting](https://xtesting.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and
[Xtesting CI](https://galaxy.ansible.com/collivier/xtesting) combined meet the

> CNTT requirements about verification, compliance and conformance:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CNTT requirements about verification, validation, compliance and conformance:
```

- smoothly assemble multiple heterogeneous test cases
- generate the Jenkins jobs in
  [OPNFV Releng](https://git.opnfv.org/releng/tree/jjb/airship/cntt.yaml) to
  verify CNTT RI
- deploy local CI/CD toolchains everywhere to check compliance with CNTT
- [dump all test case results and logs](http://artifacts.opnfv.org/functest/9ID39XK47PMZ.zip)
  for third-party conformance review

> Here are a couple of playbooks publically available:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here are a couple of publicly available playbooks :
```
